Go go go go finally isro's hard work paid off a great achievement for  humankind that's a great question so in today's episode let us take you and  our curious audience to the dark side of the moon by narrating the story of  mission Chandrayaan 3. Zuleen. Chandrayaan an incredible series of Luna  explorations by isro the Indian Space Research Organization has brought us closer  to the mysteries of the moon. The first mission Chandrayaan 1 launched in 2008  was a breakthrough as it discovered water on the moon changing the way we perceive  a celestial neighbor however the real surprise was yet to come. Chandrayaan 2  launched in 2019 was designed with an orbiter a lander named Vikram and a small  rover called Pragyan unfortunately during its landing attempt Vikram lost  contact and couldn't reach the moon surface as planned due to a small error.  Case 7. The then chairman of isro described this nerve-wracking process as the  15 minutes of terror for his team. The setback was not only disheartening for the isro  scientist but also a poignant moment for the entire nation. Yes isro didn't suck  him to despair instead they embrace the challenge learned from their mistakes  and immediately embarked on their next venture Chandrayaan 3. Then on the  remarkable day of July 14, 2023 the powerful LVM3 heavy lift rocket lifted off  flawlessly from Sri Harikota space station in Andhra Pradesh carrying the  Chandrayaan 3 spacecraft with the Vikram lander and the Pragyan rover on board.  This spacecraft had a special mission of 41 day journey to the moon as projected  on August 23, 2023 at 6.04 pm India standard time the Vikram lander gently  touched down to the moon surface perfectly the landing was so gentle so smooth  that it felt like the moon itself was giving a warm hug to the spacecraft. This  kind of landing is called a soft landing and Chandrayaan 3 executed it flawlessly.  Following this historic moment India joined an elite club of space explorers the  United States the Soviet Union and China who had successfully sent robotic  crafts to land on the moon but wait this more to the story this landing was  different from the others why that's because Chandrayaan 3 landed on the  moon's south polar region a spot that no one had ever touched before after the  landing Chandrayaan 3 waited for the lunar dust to settle and then the Pragyan  rover rolled out of the lander and started taking a walk on the moon then  Pragyan studied the elements available on the south pole of the moon and confirmed  the presence of sulfur, oxygen, aluminum, calcium and more. The detection of  sulfur holds particular significance as it's a relatively uncommon element on  the moon its occurrence in the lunar south polar region suggests the potential  existence of water ice a critical factor for future lunar missions and potential  human settlements. These findings underscore the importance of lunar  exploration in advancing our knowledge of the universe as the quest for  knowledge continues the global community eagerly anticipates further  revelations from the Indian Space Research Organization.  trivia time did you know the first discovery of water on the moon was made by the  Esno's Chandrayaan 1 mission? Chandrayaan 3 discovered a temperature drop from  around 50 degrees Celsius on the moon's surface to minus 10 degrees Celsius  just 80 millimeters below it sketching time today's sketch of the day goes to  your term an offering hope you had fun today until next time it's me Dr.  Binox zooming out what are you building kitty